Question 1
Download the text file here. (Right click and save link as).

The goal of this problem is to implement a variant of the 2-SUM algorithm (covered in the Week 6 lecture on hash table applications).
The file contains 500,000 positive integers (there might be some repetitions!).This is your array of integers, with the ith row of the file specifying the ith entry of the array.

Your task is to compute the number of target values t in the interval [2500,4000] (inclusive) such that there are distinct numbers x,y in the input file that satisfy x+y=t. (NOTE: ensuring distinctness requires a one-line addition to the algorithm from lecture.)

Write your numeric answer (an integer between 0 and 1501) in the space provided.


OPTIONAL COMMENT: You might notice that the chosen targets are relatively small numbers. (There is a good reason for this. Can you guess what would be the problem with a similar interval of larger targets?) You are welcome to add extra optimizations that take advantage of this fact, though it is not required for the assignment.

OPTIONAL CHALLENGE: If this problem is too easy for you, try implementing your own hash table for it. For example, you could compare performance under the chaining and open addressing approaches to resolving collisions.

REQUEST FOR COMMENTS: Do you have a favorite hash table application that could serve as a programming assignment for this course? Post your idea to the discussion form, and maybe it will be used in the next iteration of this course!

Question 2
Download the text file here.

The goal of this problem is to implement the "Median Maintenance" algorithm (covered in the Week 5 lecture on heap applications). The text file contains a list of the integers from 1 to 10000 in unsorted order; you should treat this as a stream of numbers, arriving one by one. Letting xi denote the ith number of the file, the kth median mk is defined as the median of the numbers x1,…,xk. (So, if k is odd, then mk is ((k+1)/2)th smallest number among x1,…,xk; if k is even, then mk is the (k/2)th smallest number among x1,…,xk.)

In the box below you should type the sum of these 10000 medians, modulo 10000 (i.e., only the last 4 digits). That is, you should compute (m1+m2+m3+?+m10000)mod10000.

OPTIONAL EXERCISE: Compare the performance achieved by heap-based and search-tree-based implementations of the algorithm.